[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: So let's talk about this
exercise from the perspective of promises,
a new tool that we're learning to try to
help improve the way we solve the problem.
Just as I was mentioning before,
our first step is to
create the Promise in
the getFile function, okay?
So we're going to need to
return what we create, so
new Promise and our Promise function
is gonna receive a resolve and
a reject.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now
we need to make the fakeAjax
call right away.
So let's make the fakeAjax
call with our filename.
And what callback do you
suppose we should provide to
fakeAjax?
>> Kyle Simpson: The resolve functions,
pretty straightforward, right?
Now here we're not taking care of errors,
so actually just to keep things simple,
I'm going to just leave off the reject
because we don't care about the error case
but of course, if our Ajax function
had the ability to handle errors,
we could wire up that error handling
through the reject function.
So fakeAjax file and resolve,
pretty straightforward.
Any questions about that part?
>> Kyle Simpson: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: In the real life situation,
we don't have to create a promise
object of whatever we are going to get
[INAUDIBLE] should it be called,
we're going to give us a promise
>> Kyle Simpson: So the question is, in
real life, are we gonna have to make our
own promises and the answer is sometimes.
Because sometimes, you're going to call a
utility that is already promise aware and
gives you a great promise.
Sometimes you're gonna call the utility
that gives you something that's kinda like
a promise, but it isn't really and in the
promise world, we call that athenable and
then you're gonna need to make
a promise that wraps around it.
Sometimes you're going to have a callback
utility that's not even remotely
promise aware, and
you're gonna need to adapt that to
a promise, which is what we're doing here.
We have a utility that doesn't know
about promises and we're adapting it.
This pattern is called lifting.
We are creating a promise aware utility
on top of the fakeAjax function.
And in fact Promise libraries do offer
utilities that will do
automatic lifting for you.
They will create this wrapper
pattern that we're doing here and
we're doing it manually,
so we can illustrate, but
we'll see that Promise utilities
libraries out there, they do this for
us because you don't want to be tripping
over doing that adaptation yourself.
That's a repeatable pattern,
it belongs in a library.
Okay, so we still want to call
the getFile function three times.
Just like with Thunks,
we're gonna get something back in
this case they're gonna be promises.
I'm gonna say p1 = getFile ("file1") and
p2 = getFile("file2") and
p3 = getFile("file3").
Great, awesome.
So we've made those
three calls in parallel.
What are we going to do with them?
How are we going to
sequence their responses?
That's the whole point of this exercise,
sequencing the responses.
So, let's think about sequencing
our responses together.
We know that p1 is at
some point gonna finish.
We're assuming in this system,
that the promise always resolves, so
at some point, its going to finish.
So to respond to that finishing,
we can simply say p1.then.
Now we know that the success handler
from p1 is going to receive the output
that we gave it just like up here, our
Promise that result functions going to get
past the response text and that will
then propagate into the Promise chain.
So what we need here is a function
that can receive the text and
print it out and
we have a utility called output.
So we could do it like that but
it turns out even easier since we
have a utility that already has that
call signature, we can just simply pass
a reference to the output function.
Not calling it,
don't put the parenthesis in there.
You wanna pass a reference to
that function into the chain.
Here, and now I want to make a really
important point about Promise chains
from a style and readability perspective.
You'll see tons and
tons of examples of promises where
the way the promise chains are illustrated
is to use inline function expressions.
In fact, this is one of the favorite
places that people like to
pull out ES6 error functions and
put them as inline function expressions.
I think this is a terrible idea,
to put inline function expressions
all over your Promise chains.
Use function declarations.
The point of a Promise chain,
if it has any point at all,
from a readability perspective, the only
readability perspective is that you should
be able to easily vertically scan down and
understand what the flow control is
like we did in that pseudo code.
If your chain is littered with all kinds
of inline function expressions and
weirdness and stuff like that,
you've completely lost all the readability
advantages of the Promise chain.
So I prefer to use
a function when I have one.
That doesn't mean you won't ever
use a function expression, but
I'm gonna say if there's an opportunity
to not use an expression and
instead do a declaration,
it's better to go that way, okay?
All right now, what we've said is whatever
Promise one finishes, we wanna output it.
We have ensured that the Promise one,
that the file one contents
are the first thing to be printed.
So we've ensured just by
way of how this works.
We know for a fact that we're going to be
printing in order just like with Thunks.
What's the next step?
Well your instinct might be to
say well I know that the way to
change some promises together, is to
return one promise from another promise.
So it would seem very attractive for
us to just pass in Promise two
into the chain and make it so
that it wires it in and wanes.
And I wish that's how Promises worked.
I wish you could pass a Promise
in to the then method and
have it automatically know what to do.
Unfortunately, Promises
don't have that feature.
So you have to pass in a function
that returns that Promise.
Again, an example where people
use error functions all the time.
Is this a case where I'd make
that into a function declaration?
Perhaps.
But for our purposes,
just to keep things clean,
I'm going to use the function expressions,
but just with the admonition,
you want to try to minimize the amount
of expressions in your flow control.
And if you're gonna have them, by goodness
please make them like one liners.
If you have 5, 10, 15, 100 line inline
expressions inside of your chains,
that's a terrible idea, okay?
But we've returned P two
from the chain which means
that the very next step that happens here
is gonna magically be waiting on P two.
Does everybody see that?
So what do we want to do
after P two finishes?
You wanna output again.
And then you can probably
guess what happens next right.
.then function, return p3 and
then .then output.
And finally .then, just for
completeness sake with the other examples,
output a complete message.
>> Kyle Simpson: There's our
flow control using promises.
It's vertically oriented rather
than being nested together,
certainly has increased
the readability factor by a bit.
But that's the least important
part of what's happened.
We've also introduced
all of the sanity and
trust that comes from
the Promise mechanism.
We can trust that if that fakeAjax utility
somehow misbehaves or is malicious or
is hijacked or whatever,
we know that no matter what it does,
if it calls that resolve 50,000 times,
we're only
gonna get notified once because that's
the way the Promise system is built.
So we've shifted our trust from
some untrustable third party
into a very trustable system, in fact,
one that's built into the language.
But even if it wasn't,
we know we can audit and
trust the Promise system to
do what its supposed to do.